I'm just going home.
How far do you live from here, by the way?
I live from 1950.
I love that description.
You talk about this is the naked city, you know, there's 8 million people in the naked city.
And here you are living across the street from a place that has stories, has memories.
Yeah.
You really read the book, didn't you?
Pleasure to deal with it, Nick.
Thank you.
There's feeling.
I mean, there's feeling on every page.
I don't want to ask you, again, questions that are in the book.
You can ask me anything.
I almost feel that there are certain things where you describe your experience with the mumps and what it did to you.
There's no reason why you have to put that in the book.
Except that it explains a lot of my screwing around.
Except that it explains a lot of what happened to you.
I always wanted to make up for that, reassure myself on that.
And also, I didn't connect with women until I was twenty.
Nothing.
That was not uncommon, though.
Boy, you made it from last time, though.
Well, I have, yes.
But, I mean, you can't tell the story of a life and leave out something as central as that.
I hesitate.
In the book, I hesitate about telling this, because it's embarrassing.
It'll embarrass some people.
It shouldn't be embarrassed, because I'm telling you, I'm not embarrassed by it.
So what?
But again, it comes back to, you certainly, you must have made a commitment.
I'm either going to tell it or I'm not going to tell it.
You got it.
That's it.
That's it, exactly what you said.
Otherwise I'm jerking off.
Pardon me.
Otherwise I'm playing with myself.
Going halfway, going halfway, be ashamed of myself later.
I'm not ashamed of anything in that book.
And the most important critics to you were your children.
Critics, not critics, but I mean readers.
No, it wasn't that they were the most important.
They were...
the ones I was most anxious about and really waited for.
I actually waited to see what my wife and my daughters would say about it.
And one daughter kept putting it off, putting it off, because she was either afraid of it or whatever the hell, and she liked it 90%.
My sons read it right away.
I have three sons.
They read it right away.
One son made the index.
You mentioned also I love
Again, the picture, there's a picture in there, the cliché, there's a picture worth a thousand words, where you show that picture of the group, this bold, zealous, revolutionary group, and you see a bunch of bored, pissed off people sitting there.
They hated each other.
Almost hated each other.
They were on the verge of hating each other.
And you just say, let's look at this picture.
That's my professional, Nick.
It's wonderful.
To me, I've never seen that device, I have to call it a device, used in a book, and it says so much.
And it does, the picture is telling us just about what's going to happen.
Was Viva Zapata, was that kind of, you talked about the strike plays and the theater of action, is this kind of a statement
a political statement, or is it just... He was a party, yes, it was an anti-communist statement.
Uh-huh.
It was an anti-communist statement, saying this guy created a revolution, and then he didn't take advantage of it, he didn't use it, and he found it cruel to people, in fact, got out of it.
I love when you're also describing when you joined the Communist Party, and then you're quoting your own journal, revolution, blah, blah, blah, and you say, who the hell did I think I was?
I mean...
Who the hell did I think I was, right?
Who the hell did I think?
What did I think I was capable of doing?
Some little piss part of a kid.
And that goes for the other communists who were all talking that way at that time.
It was the, you know, it was the thirties.
It was the thirties, early thirties, thirty-four.
And these guys would begin to talk about themselves and actually change this enormous country with an enormous middle class and enormous goodwill towards the country.
It was really ridiculous, something to laugh at.
Who the hell did we think we were?
You also say the theatre is a weapon.
Do you believe that still?
No, I believed it then.
I mean, that was the essence of what the communists thought of the theatre, that they could change people's ways of thinking through it.
I think it has changed some ways.
I think people have been affected by some of the films they've made, and plays they've done.
That was just something I wanted to ask you about.
The only guy didn't bring a photographer.
Better the way he's doing it, don't you think?
Well, I'll tell you.
Let me just shut this off for a second.
I'll go back on now.
You're going back to the interview now?
Yeah.
I will wrap it up pretty soon, too.
My word?
Just whenever you feel like you have to run, let me know.
Okay.
You said one thing on the Today Show which I liked, which impressed me.
You said, one thing people have to understand is that these were not witch hunts.
I hate that word.
It's just a lie.
Maybe you could just expand a little bit on that.
Yeah, I can.
Witch hunt means there's a hunt for something that doesn't exist.
You can't say that communists don't exist.
Did you read a book by Alan Feinstein?
No.
Published by Knopf, too, about his case and all that, all about the communists that were in the State Department.
You know what happened in England?
They found communists all through their goddamn government.
We had communists in the trade unions.
Okay, so they weren't dangerous.
They could have been.
Yeah, Wichhorn says the thing doesn't exist.
Bullshit.
And all the liberals went for it.
They still go for it.
They love that phrase.
You have never heard an ex-communist use witch hunt.
I never have.
They never called a witch hunt.
That's very interesting.
Very.
Tells the whole story right there in one shot.
What do they call it?
Something else.
Depends.
I mean, they don't like it.
I didn't like that committee themselves.
Two of the members lied to me.
I didn't like that.
They said, this is just private between us.
We're not going to tell anybody.
And he ran and called up California.
Well, the one thing in Miller's book, remember that he said the one guy said he'd call it off if he'd introduce him to Maryland?
I don't believe that.
No, no, no, no, no.
It may be true, but I had nothing to do with it.
I know, but I'm just talking about it.
I don't know what Miller did.
I didn't read his book.
It's not a bad book.
I hear it's a pretty good book.
He does fly around, though.
I mean, he does.
He calls it time dance.
Again, we're not discussing his book or your book together, but...
I did an interview with him, by the way, when he was up in Boston.
I'll suspect, if you'd like, I'll send you a copy of that story when I send you a copy.
It's a pretty good story.
Do you know my address?
No, I'd love to have it.
I'm giving it to you right now.
Okay.
174 East 95.
East 95.
10028.
That's all.
Okay, and I'll send you this, and then when the Greek piece comes out... Send that.
It's a nice little magazine, you know, and you'd be surprised.
It goes all over the United States.
And Dukakis loved the piece.
He absolutely did.
He came up at this press conference, and the guys that owned the paper said, what a great piece.
He told him the magazine with my picture, which I took on.
He said, what a great piece.
Thank you very much.
He said that?
He did.
I asked him tough questions, too.
I mean, I asked him.
The Greeks, a lot of the Greek people think you only come to them when you need money.
Who says that?
I said, a lot of people.
Is it true?
You know, why have you never appointed a Greek to an important position?
It is important.
He probably fears being called at, you know... What's there to fear?
It hasn't stopped Mario Cuomo from putting all the Italians in.
That didn't stop Jack Kennedy from putting all the Irish in, did it?
No.
You have to.
A person has an obligation to bring his people along.
I think it's true.
He never did.
I guess he felt that he'd be called a professional Greek or something.
Well, again, he was probably... He's just got to get out of it.
He's got to do what you said.
I think he's done it.
I mean, he's dancing the calamity.
Who's the guy he fired, his best friend?
Sasso.
Yeah, what is that?
Why did he do that?
Is Sasso still with him?
He's in the background.
He's around him.
He replaced him with a woman who's terrific, Susan Estridge.
She's good.
She's spectacular.
She's doing the campaign.
And he's got a guy who's the best money raiser in the world.
I mean, DeFarca's campaign is an excellent organization in unparalleled money raising.
They've got this guy by the name of Fyreman, I think it was Paul Fyreman.
The guy's already raised $28 million.
He's raised as much as he's allowed by law.
You know, he's raised him.
The Greeks give.
Yeah, the Greeks and the Jews give.
Don't forget.
The Jews give.
You've got the two wealthiest ethnic groups in America, the Greeks and the Jews.
Kitty's Jewish, Mike is Greek, and they both would like to see him get in.
Is Kitty pretty?
Some would think so.
She used to be a dancer.
Why does he like her so much?
I don't know.
She gives him a hard on.
What's the use of Kitty about her?
It goes way back.
I mean, he's been obsessed with her, you know.
Is he a very neat guy?
Oh, he's meticulous.
I notice him sitting in a photograph like this.
Oh, yeah, and he's got the socks that come up to here, you know.
There's not a wrinkle in them.
No, I mean, you do see certain things.
There's a terrific book on here from Houghton Mifflin.
It's very good, by the way.
I recommend it.
Which book is that?
Does it come out?
Yeah, it's out.
There are a couple of them.
Make sure if you get one, get the one from Houghton Mifflin, Dukakis, the Odyssey, or something like that.
In fact, I reviewed it for this Greek magazine again.
I developed Dukakis books.
I've got to talk about myself here.
Don't do that.
After I just read a book about where I talked about myself on the pages, I'll think you're strange.
Only 800 pages.
The art of the masked observer.
I love that.
The witch.
The masked observer.
Talking about yourself.
Well, let's finish with the House Un-American thing and then be done with it about the witch hunt thing.
It doesn't bother me.
Don't worry about it.
Okay, but I don't want to spend a lot of time on it.
Let's finish with it and fuck off with it.
Okay.
We ought to wrap up on it, but...
Looking back on those days, do you feel foolish about ever?
No.
What the hell?
No more than the country was foolish at all.
But I mean for... What else could I do?
I mean, I think if I did, I saw it do the opposite and did the opposite and did the opposite.
I thought, this is terrible.
I don't believe the word.
What were you personally rebelling against?
The communists.
No, I mean when you signed on with them.
Oh, then?
Yeah.
I guess way down deep as my father.
You know, I get that written down here.
That's my sense.
Way down deep, that's why.
Because you say, as I get older, I look in the mirror and who do I see more and more of?
Yeah.
Is there irony in that?
What you were rebelling against, you now see?
I guess there is, yeah.
That's a good point, isn't it?
Miller said that, too.
He said that.
He said, I look in the mirror and see my father's face.
He said it better than I say it.
That's what he said somewhere.
He said, I look in the mirror when I shave and I see my father's face.
That's very succinctly good.
I'm not joking.
Two of white walls.
You're a wealthy publisher.
The House of God.
God bless them.
They're wonderful.
Don't you love being in a room filled with books?
Yeah, the only thing I always feel is, what can I steal?
I would strain myself so much.
Why?
Make sure they're first editions.
See these fucking books here.
These are, I think, ten of them all.
I love that thing.
That little story about where Brando picked up the glove and you said that was not you at all.
That was just... No, I mean, I let it go.
I proved it.
Except that you had the sense not to butt in and say anything.
Nothing to fear.
What do you think when you see something like that happening?
I mean, as a director... You feel thrilled.
You feel grateful.
And does it make sense when you see it happening?
Yeah, just quick.
Emotional sense.
Wonderful.
Is that kind of like improvisation as the jazz guys would say?
It is in a way, but it's just the way that he's taught us an actor to play the scene really, and whatever happened is part of the real scene.
But it never occurred to him to say, cut, cut, cut.
Never occurred to me, no.
But I mean him either, the actor.
No, he never would do that.
Did he enjoy doing it?
He played until I said cut, no matter how long it was.
And everybody kept quiet until you said cut.
You're goddamn right.
They didn't, they heard from me.
They never did it again.
Did it ever cut?
Did you ever almost say cut, you know, when you saw this thing?
I love two cocky socks up to here.
What did you ask?
We're not a wrinkle in them either.
What did you say?
I don't know.
I'm trying to cut you off.
I don't think it was that important.
We've got that.
We've got just about everything here, you know.
The theater of action.
Strike away.
What a pompous thing to call anything, the theater of action.
Those were the days, Nick.
Those were the days.
And those kids didn't have a quarter.
Do you remember the story in the book where they got paid with 20 pumpkin pies?
Jesus.
Eat anything.
Apples.
Vegetables, half shot, anything.
I mean, they were so devoted.
They lived together, they worked together every day.
I couldn't take it.
I don't like group living.
I don't like, what do you call these things that Jews set up in there in Israel?
Kibbutz.
I hate them.
I went to one, stayed there a week, drove me nuts.
Remember the hippies back in the 60s called them demons?
I don't like the hippies either.
I don't like group this, that, the other.
I was in the group theater, I didn't like it.
I like being by myself, except when I want to be with somebody.
And as an artist, do you think that that produces your best work?
It's the whole thing.
There's no such thing, I think, as art by committee anyway.
The King James Bible, that's about it.
That's kind of a question, actually.
Play can be a product of a group activity, but there has to be a very strong leader, or else they go wild.
Okay.
You know what, I'm going to wrap this up pretty soon.
Are you threatening me a promise?
No, because I don't want to.
I love the fact that you put aside money in your will for a great party.
It's going to be a celebration.
You don't want weeping, mourning people.
I don't want anybody weeping over me, because why weep over me?
I had a great life.
I mean, if it stopped five minutes after you got here, if I fall on the floor, no, no, nothing.
Don't you think so?
Okay.
Look at the life I had.
Look at it.
Everything.
I had it all, including pain.
I think pain is very good.
It's very stimulating.
It's important, isn't it?
Well, anyway, I had a great life, so I don't want any moaning and groaning, and they can come and take my sweaters away and my books and everything they want.
The only way you have catharsis in Greek pain at play is through terror and pity.
I mean, there has to be pain.
You have to suffer before you can have it.
I don't want any pity.
I don't want any terror.
I had all that.
I don't want terror.
I don't want pity.
I don't want catharsis.
You do say that the only plays that you can relate to are contemporary plays.
It's true.
I have some.
You've got the New York Times.
I read that every day.
It's a pleasure.
I get something out of it.
I read the news, too.
I follow sports.
I follow people.
I follow gossip.
I think it's all important.
More years.
Give me three wishes.
That's the end.
Not three, did you say three?
No, you said three wishes.
Oh, yeah, three wishes, yeah.
I said wishes, I quoted you.
Three shit, that's not it.
Three shit, that's right.
I want twenty more years.
I'm seventy-eight and a half now, I'm seventy-ninth year.
I want to go to just under a hundred.
My father's the same, he's seventy-seven.
He looks wonderful, a little fat, he loves to eat.
But other than that, he's just a good man.
I try not to eat too much.
I shouldn't have eaten those goddamn cakes.
You work out?
No, I work in the garden.
I hate walking out, but I walk every day.
I walk two miles or three miles and try to walk fast.
And I am in good shape.
I'm not overweight.
I wish I could say that.
You've got a little belly.
It's as big as it's ever been.
You know, I've seen bigger bellies.
Well, I mean, with me, it's as big as it's ever been.
Oh, as big as it's ever been.
What's your wife say?
Doesn't she get married?
Yeah, oh yeah.
She's right.
You shouldn't have it.
What are you, 45?
Something like that.
Precisely.
I'll be 45 next week.
You shouldn't have it.
You should start to take off weight now.
When you're 55, you should be 10 pounds lighter.
That's not much.
No.
I can do it, too.
And I do work out.
It's boring.
I hate gyms.
I don't like the smell of the gym locker room.
Discipline is everything.
What else can I ask you?
Here's one, here's one good one I'm going to ask.
Because I really resent the assertion, and you seem to have agreed with it, that you are an extinct volcano.
That's an English critic.
I didn't say it.
An American critic didn't say it.
I've been panned by some critics, you know.
I'm sure.
There's a guy up in Boston who just panned me today.
I just got to know this today.
He wrote in The Globe.
And he said all my anecdotes were fake.
Really?
How does he propose to prove that?
There's not a fake anecdote in the book.
Who's the guy that wrote this?
That Kevin Kelly.
I don't know who he is.
I'll have to check.
Is it today's Globe?
That's what I hear.
I've got the Globe.
Some guys coming tomorrow from the Globe interview me, so I'll have some fun with them.
I wonder who it is.
I beat them, huh?
I'm here ahead of them.
What?
They're my competition, the Globe.
The Globe?
Yeah.
Well, I'm the other paper, the smaller one.
It goes by that review.
You've got no competition.
I don't.
I mean, do you feel like an extinct volcano, a spent force?
Do I look like one?
No.
I'm not.
But I mean creatively, artistically.
I mean, these things count too.
Just because you're not doing a play or a movie.
They're worth all my movies put together.
That book is there.
Yeah, well, I mean, that's the point.
How can an extinct volcano write that book?
Explain that to me.
That's the point.
I did an interview with this guy, everybody's, what's his name, George Amado, you ever heard of him, the Brazilian?
Famous, famous writer.
What's his name, Jamado?
Amado.
Amado, yes, my wife likes it.
George Amado.
My wife loves his books.
Nice, nice guy.
He lived in exile, he was a communist, he was thrown out of his country, he had to live in Paris.
Amado, my wife loves his books.
Amado, A-M-A-D-O.
I know, that's the one.
What's he like?
Lovely.
He doesn't speak any English.
I interviewed him through an interpreter on tape, and it was very good.
But he says he'd give everything.
He's written all these books, great books.
He's funny.
He's a hero in his own life.
But she says, I'd trade six good books for one little poem that I could write.
And I said, for one poem.
I said, how long, a narrative poem?
He said, no, one little poem.
Six lines, he said.
You ever hear about the memoirs?
judge of the Supreme Court who went for a walk with somebody, and the guy asked him what he wanted most now towards the end of his life, and he said, I'd give up all my fame for one good hard-harm like I used to have.
You can't tell what a guy might want.
There's a wonderful cartoon in the New Yorker a couple years ago, I don't know if you remember it, but there's these two old guys sitting in leather chairs in a club.
I didn't see it.
And one of them says, now they tell us masturbation is good for you.
I mean, you know, who needs it now, right?
That's a cute story.
I think I've just about covered everything.
Okay.
Would you kindly... Sure.
Sure.
Would you also inscribe it to my lovely wife?
What's her name?
Put this thing on my name.
I don't know what he... Come downstairs, I'll give it to you.
But it must be a thrill when somebody understands what you're trying to do.
That's what this guy did.
Whether it be a review or somebody you talk to or whatever, I guess that's important.
In a book, in a movie, or a play.
I don't want it anymore, now I've got this.
You saved everything, huh?
Those pictures with the fezzers.
They look like the bottom of a drawer somewhere.
See, that's a real picture right there, holding the book.
You know that?
Yeah.
I really love this book.
I bet you never worried that it would be so long that you'd never finish it, right, I hope?
No, I just kept picking away.
It's a great little camera.
They gave me some pictures here, too.
They gave me some old ones.
There's one picture here of me kidding myself.
Did you read the description?
Remember that?
There I am walking behind.
I don't know what the hell I'm doing.
Usually I knew what I was doing, but I didn't know.
Well, these must have all been cropped by an art director who... My editor.
My second editor, Bob, got me to the first one to see Kathy Hardin in the second.
They've worked so hard over this.
Okay, we checked everything off.
I got everything.
I don't think I missed anything.
And this was really great.
You've got a good strong handshake, my friend.
Let me hear...